.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ec2listimg.1
.\"
.TH ec2listimg
.SH NAME
ec2listimg \- List images in EC2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ec2listimg [option]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ec2listimg
List an image in EC2. When no filter is specified all images in the account
will be listed. It is possible to list only the image name, the image name and
image id, or the complete image description.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a --account ACCOUNT_NAME"
Specifies the account to use to connect to EC2. The account is specified
in the config file
.IR ~/.ec2utils.conf.
The account is specified as a section with [account-ACCOUNT_NAME] delimiter.
The options of the sections are:
.IR access_key_id
.IR secret_access_key
.I ssh_key_name
and
.IR ssh_private_key .
This allows the program to connect to EC2.
If the access_key_id and/or secret_access_key are not found in
.IR ~/.ec2utils.conf,
the search will use the ACCOUNT_NAME to look for a matching section
[profile ACCOUNT_NAME] in
.IR ~/.aws/config
or [ACCOUNT_NAME] in
.IR ~/.aws/credentials.
Only the
.IR access_key_id
and
.IR secret_access_key
options are used by this tool.
.IP "--access-id AWS_ACCESS_KEY"
Specifies the AWS access key and overrides the value given for the
.I account
with the
.I access_key_id
in the configuration file.
.IP "-f --file CONFIG_FILE"
Specifies the configuration file to use. The default is
.IR ~/.ec2utils.conf .
.IP "--image-id AMI_ID"
Specify the AMI ID of the image to be listed. This option is
mutually exclusive with the
.IR --image-name ,
.IR --image-name-frag ,
and
.IR --image-name-match .
It will only return a result in a specific region as image ids are unique per
region.
.IP "--image-name IMAGE_NAME"
Specify the name of the image to be listed. The program will look for
an exact match of the name. This option is mutually exclusive with
.IR --image-id ,
.IR --image-name-frag ,
and
.IR --image-name-match .
.IP "--image-name-frag IMAGE_NAME_FRAGMENT"
Specify a section of an image name for the image(s) to be listed. Every
image that matches the name fragment will be marked as listed. This
option is mutually exclusive with
.IR --image-id ,
.IR --image-name-name ,
and
.IR --image-name-match .
.IP "--image-name-match REGEX"
Specify a regular expression to match an image name. Every image matching the
regular expression will be listed. This option is mutually
exclusive with
.IR --image-id ,
.IR --image-name-name ,
and
.IR --image-name-frag .
.IP "-r --regions EC2_REGIONS"
A comma separated list of Amazon EC2 regions, or a single region. If no
region argument is specified all EC2 connected regions will be processed.
EC2 disconnected regions have different API keys and thus the specified
.I account
would not work with the disconnected regions. If a disconnected region is to
be processed specify the region explicitly on the command line, and only the
region of interest along with the matching
.IR account .
.IP "-s --secret-key AWS_SECRET_KEY"
Specifies the AWS secret access key and overrides the value given for the
.I account
with the
.I secret_access_key
in the configuration file.
.IP "--verbose"
Supported values are 0 (default), 1, and 2. With the default setting the
output will be the image name. Setting the verbosity to 1 will list the image
name and the image id. A value of 2 will provide the full image description as
it is known to EC2.
.IP "--version"
Print the version of he program
.SH EXAMPLE
ec2listimg --account example --image-name-match test --verbose 1 --region us-west-1

Will list all images in the account
.IR example
that match the
.IR test
in the image name in the
.IR us-west-1
region.
.SH AUTHOR
SUSE Public Cloud Team (public-cloud-dev@susecloud.net)
